# An Overview of three concurrency fuzzer

---

## RaceFuzzer

---

### Motivation

The author abuses existing programming analysis techniques for multi-process programs for their high `false negative` rate. 
Meanwhile, sophisticated techniques which rely on HPR have a large runtime overheads and only detect a race if it really happens.
For these reasons, this work propose RaceFuzzer, a technique for detecting real race with low overhead.

### Insight

1. RACEFUZZER first uses an existing imprecise race detection technique, such as hybrid dynamic race detection, to compute a set of pairs of program statements that could potentially race in a concurrent execution.

2. Then, RaceFuzzer postpones the thread which contains one of the statement in the racing pair of statements until another thread is about to execute a statement in the racing pair. So RaceFuzzer can report a real race. After that, RaceFuzzer continue to execute the program and check if there is a exception.

### Conclusion 

RaceFuzzer may be the first method to use randomized thread scheduler to identify a real race. It controls a randomized thread scheduler of concurrent program based on potential data races discovered by an imprecise race detection technique.

---

## AtomFuzzer

    a little comment: Just found out that all the three works use the same insight(lol).

### Overview

This work shares the same view with the first one. The only difference is that AtomFuzzer's target is atomicity violation.

### Insight

AtomFuzzer designs a pattern of Atomicity Violation, which is:

a thread p is inside an atomic block and is about to acquire a lock L that has been previously acquired and released by the same thread inside the same
atomic block. When it meets such a situation, it pauses the thread and run another thread to check if the new thread tries to acquire the same lock. If so, it reports a warning.

## DeadlockFuzzer

### `the only things that should be pointed out`

The dynamic validation requires precise knowledge about the thread and lock, however, since thread and lock objects are created dynamically at runtime, their addresses cannot be used to identify them across executions.

So DeadlockFuzzer use abstraction for presenting dynamic object. `i.e.  k-object-sensitivity ` or `execution indexing`

